# DESCRIPTION
This application is designed for management of personal finance and small business finance data.  It is specifically geared towards trading activity, and that portion differs from GAAP in a few ways.

It is recommended that the number of items in a json array not exceed 2,147,483,647.

For help with milliseconds since epoch, this site is an option: [UnixTimeStamp.com](https://www.unixtimestamp.com/)

# COMPATIBILITY
* This application requires Java 17 or a later version compatible with it.
* This application expects all input data to be in UTF-8 or ASCII formats
* Torsocks seems to interfere with this application's ability to read and write files and access APIs.  The latter may be due to many APIs blocking TOR nodes.
* In Linux systems using the Nautilus filesystem interface or derivatives, there seems to be a problem when .jar files are run.  It seems to set the working directory to the home folder rather than the directory the .jar file is in.
  * Due to this, the Linux version of the software ships with a run script for convenience
* This application's asset conversion api handling is only designed for APIs conforming to the following attributes:
  * HTTP accessed
  * uses HTTP GET method
  * returns a JSON

# CONFIGURATION
the following is an explanation of configuration options available for each profile
* US Date Format: if checked, February 21 will appear as 02/21/2016 and 21/02/2016 if unchecked.
  * default: checked
* Use Day Not Time: if checked, LDate objects will be displayed without a time.
  * default: unchecked
* Precision: the precision of mathematical calculations.
  * default: 20
* Log Level: the level at which logs will print in the console and be saved in a log file.
  * Default: info
* Main Currency: the currency of your region in which your standard accounting is required to be kept.
  * Default: USD
* Main Extra: the version of the Main Currency with extra decimal places
  * Default: USD Extra
* Block Size: the number of 16 byte chunks that will compose blocks for XARC file formats
  * Default: 16 (256 bytes plaintext and 272 bytes encrypted)
* State Frequency: the frequency of autogenerated states
  * Default: NEVER
* Default Range in Days: number of days to show in transaction ranges
  * Default: 90
* Automatic States: if checked, state auto-generation will run every time the program is started.
  * Default: false

# KNOWN PROBLEMS
* in the XARC file format, it is assumed that trailing zeroes are blank space.  Avoid having any 0 valued bytes in XARC files.

# DOWNLOAD
[Download](https://github.com/DonnyMatchen/DendroFinance/releases)

# SINGLE ENTRY, DOUBLE ENTRY, AND QUADRUPLE ENTRY
### Single Entry
Tracking accounts and ghost accounts are single capsule.
* Tracking accounts are used to track the volume of all assets that are not the main currency.  This includes other fiat currencies, stocks, cryptocurrencies, commodities, and other forms of inventory that are not distinguishable.
* Ghost accounts are accounts used to track values not appearing on the balance sheet, but worth keeping track of.  The most important example are accounts with tax-relevant totals such as taxable income, capital gains and losses, and deductible expenses.

### Double Entry
Normal accounts use double capsule accounting, and adhere largely with GAAP.  For more information on standard accounting practices, see any number of excellent guides on double capsule accounting.  An understanding of assets, liabilities, and equity--as well as debits anc credits--is necessary to operate this software.

### Quadruple Entry
Trading activities use quadruple capsule accounting.  This involves the use of an equity account to allow transfers from one asset account to another to be recorded in revenue and expenses.

As an example, if you were buying 1 share of MSFT, this would be represented under double capsule as a credit to cash of 200 and a debit to stocks of 200.  Under quadruple accounting, this is represented by the same debit and credit, with an additional debit to `Trading_Expenses` and credit to an equity account.  This allows for tracking of trading activities in an in depth way.

Another application of quadruple capsule accounting is in savings. allowing a movement of funds from one asset account to another to be recorded in expenses for personal budgeting purposes by adding a complementary account to equity.

Note that quadruple capsule trading requires recording appreciation and depreciation of stocks, cryptocurrencies, and commodities.  This is why capital gains and losses are recorded as ghost accounts in single capsule.

*It is possible to represent trading activity in this application in accordance with GAAP, but must be done manually for now.*

### Formatting
Accounts are handled in columns.  To indicate which column an account in a transaction capsule belongs in, add the column letter and an exclamation mark followed by the account name, then the value in parentheses.

Example:
`D!Cash(200), C!Gifts(200)`

##### Column Letters
1. **D**: Debit
2. **C**: Credit
3. **G**: Ghost
4. **T**: Tracking

# ESSENTIAL ELEMENTS
Account and Exchange names must be unique, and cannot contain spaces.

If accounts are renamed, any counterpart(s) in `notable-accounts` should also be changed to match.

More specific information can be found under Examples.